MAT SCALES: Hey
everyone, it's time
for another edition of
the "Developer Diary"
for my camera app.
One of the things that got
me excited about this project
in the first place
was the image filters.
The filters that I've made
are fairly standard things
that you might see in other
camera apps or image editing
software like changing
the brightness, contrast,
and that sort of thing.
The filters in this app
are written using WebGL.
I'm not going to dive
into the details of WebGL
in this episode,
but I recent recode
an episode of
"Supercharged" with Surma
where I wrote some code that
sets up WebGL so that you
can use to manipulate an image.
It's about an hour
long, so I'm not
going to assume that
you've watched it,
but there is a link
in the description
if you want to do that now.
The very brief summary
of the WebGL setup
is that you create
a canvas element
and attach some code to it
that runs for each pixel.
This has to output what
color that pixel should be.
This code is called a shader.
The code for the shader is
written in a special language
that is kind of like
C. I'm not going
to go into the details
of the language,
but instead I want to talk about
what my code is actually doing.
The shader can look at data from
the original image, only when
you're talking about
images in WebGL,
you tend to refer
to it as a texture.
So here we have the
code for my shader.
We have a thing called
a varying up here,
which is called texCoords.
This is the coordinates of the
pixel within the canvas that
can be used to look into the
original image, the texture,
hence texCoords.
And this is a different
value for each pixel,
which is why it's a varying.
You can also pass in some
values from your JavaScript that
were shared for every pixel.
These variables
are called uniforms
because they are the
same for every pixel.
This is how we can
pass through things
like the contrast or
brightness levels actually are.
So here we have
uniforms role for all
of the filter settings--
saturation, warmth, et cetera.
This text sampler
is how we going
to refer to our original image.
And this one which
is sourceSize,
this gives us the
width and height
in pixels of the original image.
So how do these
filters actually work?
What are we doing?
Well one of the first
things that I do in my code
is something called
a convolution filter.
So a convolution filter is
kind of a complicated name,
something that's actually
relatively simple.
What we're going to
do is we're going
to calculate the color
of an output pixel
based on more than
one input pixel.
So here I want to work out what
color a particular pixel should
be when I produce my image.
And the way I do that
is I look at the values
of the colors for that pixel
and some pixels around it.
So here we have a three
by three convolution
because we're going to look
at nine pixels in a three
by three grid.
Each pixel is given a weight.
This is how important
it is to the output.
This particular
set of weights is
going to give us
what's known as a blur.
So what we do is we gather up
the colors of all the pixels
around it, and we multiply all
of the color values for each
of these pixels by the weight.
Because all these
color values are
going to be numbers
from 0 to 1, and then
when we add them
all together we're
going to end up with
a number between 0
and, in this case, 16, once
we've added them together
with the weights,
we'll then divide by 16
to get back to values
between 0 and 1.
The way that you might
think that you're
going to do this is you have
an array with your weights in.
And you loop through from
minus 1, minus 1 to 1, 1.
And you go through and look
up all nine pixels in a loop.
And you get each color and
you multiply it by its weight
and you add them to a total.
And at the end you divide by
the sum of all those weights.
And that's more or
less what you do,
except that in WebGL shader, I'm
going to optimize this slightly
by unrolling this loop.
So that is instead of
doing the loop as a loop,
I'm going to write out each
individual statement that's
going to get run
on its own line,
so that instead of
running a loop nine times,
I'm going to write
nine instructions.
So you might be wondering,
why would I do this?
Why we I unroll this loop
and have each instruction
separate rather than
looping over them?
And it's to do with how
graphics cards work.
So a graphics card
contains hundreds
of GPU calls, which
are great at doing
mathematical calculations.
But one of the things they're so
good at that an ordinary CPU is
branching.
So is when things are different
when you run the code again.
So in a GPU, it's used to doing
the same calculations over
and over and over again.
It sets up a pipeline to
just read in data and output
the output without doing
any decision making.
So when we have a loop,
many graphics card drivers
will actually optimize
that out automatically.
It will say, OK, so it's
a constant number of runs
for this code.
And we can work
out at compile time
that this is going
to run nine times
and it's going to
use these values,
and it can produce that
unrolled version for you.
But not every driver does it.
And particularly with
things like texture
reads where we're looking
up the color information
of the original image, that
can be very highly optimized
and pipelining in those colors.
And based on the fact that
we're going left to right
and we're always pulling
things out in the same order,
so the graphics card can make
that really fast if it knows
ahead of time what the
pixels are going to be
that are going to be looked up.
And when you
introduce that loop,
some graphics card drivers
have that as a branch,
and they don't optimize
for it anymore.
So this could be extremely
slow on some graphics cards.
Now, most of the time
that's probably fast.
Most modern devices, this
will work just fine, but not
all of them.
I tested on some devices
where this was extremely slow,
and so that's why I'm doing it.
So let's have a look
at the actual code
in my shader for this.
So I did a three by three
matrix in the example.
I've actually used a five
by five matrix in my code
because sampling more values,
you get a smoother blur effect.
But it's otherwise
exactly the same.
So here I am using the texture2D
call of the shader language
to look up, in my
texture sampler,
some coordinates,
including the offset
that I'm looking at, to get
the color value for a pixel.
Then down here I'm adding
up all of those color values
along with their weights,
and then dividing
by the sum of those weights.
Now you may notice
that in the app here,
I don't actually have
blur as an option.
What I actually have is sharpen.
Now here I've got the
sharpness turned way up,
but I can turn it
down to nothing.
And you can see the sharpness
of the image changes
when I move the slider.
So how am I using a blur
to make an image sharper?
Well, the way that that
works is using something
called an unsharp mask.
This is a technique that was
actually invented for film back
when it really was film-- this
is a predigital technique--
to make things sharper.
What you do is you
take the original image
and you take the
blurred version,
and you find out the
difference between them.
So you're basically
saying, how does this image
change when it gets blurry?
And then what you can
do is you can undo that.
So if the pixel gets more red
and less blue when it's blurry,
then you can make that
pixel less red and more
blue to make it sharper,
which is actually
an extremely clever
way of doing this.
You do a negative blur almost.
So the way that's
implemented here
is that I work out this
distance between the texture
and the blurred version, and I
add it to the original texture
color.
And then I actually scale this
effect with the sharpness value
from the slider.
So if sharpen here,
which is just a number.
Let's say this was 0.
Then this whole thing
would be 0 as well
and we would be adding nothing.
This would have no effect.
But also if sharpen is
negative, then we actually
just add on the blurred version.
We make the image more blurry.
And you can see that in the app.
So here we take the sharpness
we move it down to the negative,
and the image becomes
blurrier than it was.
So that's applying a
convolution filter,
in this case using a blur
to sharpen the image.
There are convolution
filters that
do all sort of things, that
give you an embossed image
or can find edges.
There are all sorts
of things you can
do with a convolution filter.
I'm just using it to
increase sharpness.
Now there are some simpler
operations you can do as well.
So for brightness,
what I actually do here
is I take each color
in the original
and I just multiply
it by whatever
the brightness value is.
So if you have a brightness
of 1, nothing happens.
Whereas if you have
a brightness of 2,
every pixel gets
twice as bright.
That is the red, green, and
blue values are doubled.
And similarly a
brightness of half
will mean that
everything gets darker.
All the pixel values get
to be half what they were.
Warmth is another
interesting one.
I kind of thought this would
be much more complicated,
but I found a very simple
formula that works pretty well.
So you take your warmth
value and you just
increase the red of the
pixel by that warmth value.
You add the warmth volume on.
And you get the blue value
and you subtract the warmth
from it.
It's an extremely
simple formula,
but it actually gives
a pretty good effect.
So you can see that
what happens is
that when you increase
the warmth slider,
the image gets less
blue and more red
and it gives it a warmer tone.
And similarly when you
decrease the slider,
the image gets more
blue and less red.
So this is obviously
an extremely simple way
of achieving this effect, which
I found pretty surprising.
And I found that for most of the
effects that I used in filters,
there were kind of two schools
of thought for each of them.
One of them would be
an extremely simple
mechanical method of
achieving the effect.
So for warmth, just change
the red and blue values,
and it's just by a fixed value.
And that gives a
pretty good effect.
Other people are
taking detailed models
of how the brain
perceives images
and how your eye
works to produce
models that are a bit more
natural but more complicated.
So I've opted for the
simple way in all of these,
but you may find that
if you search around
for how to actually
implement these
that you get some of those
complicated versions coming
through as well.
So the next filter I want
to talk about is contrast.
This is another one
that was interesting.
I didn't know how this worked
before I started this project.
And what we're
doing is the idea is
to make the pixels seem
more distinct, to make
every part of the image
a little different
from the other
parts of the image.
So the way that we
can do this is we
can say, let's make
every pixel, make
every color get a little
bit further away from gray.
So gray is where the red is at
half and the green is at half
and the blue is at
half, like it's halfway
between white and black.
And the way that we increase
the contrast in the situation
is if the red value of our
pixel is more than half,
then we make it bigger.
And if it's less than
half, we make it smaller.
We make all the pixels get
further away from gray.
This increases the contrast.
Now this doesn't work
perfectly if your image
is-- let's say it's very dark.
So most of the pixels
will be less than gray.
This actually will
decrease the contrast.
Everything gets closer to black
when they're all very dark.
The same will happen if
everything's very light.
So the other thing
that I've got here
is the ability to
change the gray point.
So that's what value
we're using as gray.
So we can set the gray
point from almost black
to almost white.
And when the gray
point is almost white,
then that means that many
of the lighter pixels
will still get darker.
And similarly when we
move the gray point down
towards black, dark pixels,
some of them will get lighter.
So you can choose the gray
point to suit your image.
Generally speaking, you
want to set the gray point
to be the average of all
of the pixels in your image
so that more pixels are
moving away from each other,
on average.
I haven't implemented
that automatically,
though that is a thing that
some image applications do.
Instead I've just
giving a slider
and you can choose
whatever looks nice.
So that's how I implemented
some of these filters.
Things like the vignette,
it's making the image darker
the further away it is from the
center, and things like that.
There are many other
kinds of filters
that I could have
implemented that you might
find in other applications.
I could have done them in
the more complicated way.
But I hope this is
a reasonable example
of how these things work.
So I hope you enjoyed
the show and that you'll
join me next time when we
talk about something else.
Thanks for watching my video.
Remember, you can subscribe
to the channel for more
from Chrome developers,
or follow the links
on the screen to watch other
episodes of "Developer Diary".
Cheers.